README.md, before:

# DSpace API Python Scripts

DSpace API Python Scripts (DSAPS) is a Python CLI application for managing uploads to DSpace. DSAPS has only been used on instances running DSpace 6.3 and has not been tested on other versions.

Note: Previously, the repository comprised of self-contained scripts that could be run independently. Those scripts can be found as a [release](https://github.com/MITLibraries/dspace-api-python-scripts/releases/tag/v1.0).

## Development

- To preview a list of available Makefile commands: `make help`
- To install with dev dependencies: `make install`
- To update dependencies: `make update`
- To run unit tests: `make test`
- To lint the repo: `make lint`
- To run the app: `pipenv run dsaps --help`

### Reconciling files with metadata CSV

```bash
pipenv run dsaps --url $DSPACE_URL -e $DSPACE_EMAIL -p $DSPACE_PASSWORD reconcile -m <metadata-csv> -o /output -d <content-directory> -t <file-type>
```

### Creating a new collection within a DSpace community

```bash
pipenv run dsaps --url $DSPACE_URL -e $DSPACE_EMAIL -p $DSPACE_PASSWORD newcollection -c <community-handle> -n <collection-name>
```

### Adding items to a DSpace collection

The command below shows `newcollection` and `additems` being run in conjunction with each other. Note that the invocation must call `newcollection` first. In practice, this is the command that is usually run:

```bash
pipenv run dsaps --url $DSPACE_URL -e $DSPACE_EMAIL -p $DSPACE_PASSWORD newcollection -c <community-handle> -n <collection-name> additems -m <metadata-csv> -f config/<field-mapping>.json -d <s3-bucket-name> -t <file-type> 
``` 

## Environment 

### Required

```shell
# The url for the DSpace REST API
DSPACE_URL=

# The email associated with the DSpace user account used for authentication
DSPACE_EMAIL=

# The password associated with the DSpace user account used for authentication
DSPACE_PASSWORD=
```

## CLI commands

All CLI commands can be run with `pipenv run <COMMAND>`.

### `dsaps`

```
Usage: -c [OPTIONS] COMMAND1 [ARGS]... [COMMAND2 [ARGS]...]...

Options:
  --url TEXT           The url for the DSpace REST API. Defaults to env var
                       DSPACE_URL if not set.  [required]
  -e, --email TEXT     The email associated with the DSpace user account used
                       for authentication. Defaults to env var DSPACE_EMAIL if
                       not set.  [required]
  -p, --password TEXT  The password associated with the DSpace user account
                       used for authentication. Defaults to env var
                       DSPACE_PASSWORD if not set.  [required]
  --help               Show this message and exit.

Commands:
  additems       Add items to a DSpace collection.
  newcollection  Create a new DSpace collection within a community.
  reconcile      Match files in the content directory with entries in the metadata CSV file.
```

### `dsaps reconcile`

```
Usage: -c reconcile [OPTIONS]

  Match files in the content directory with entries in the metadata CSV file.

  Running this method creates the following CSV files:

      * metadata_matches.csv: File identifiers for entries in metadata CSV
      file with a corresponding file in the content directory.

      * no_files.csv: File identifiers for entries in metadata CSV file
      without a corresponding file in the content directory.

      * no_metadata.csv: File identifiers for files in the content directory
      without a corresponding entry in the metadata CSV file.

      * updated-<metadata-csv>.csv: Entries from the metadata CSV file with a
      corresponding file in the content directory.

Options:
  -m, --metadata-csv FILE       The filepath to a CSV file containing metadata
                                for Dspace uploads.  [required]
  -o, --output-directory TEXT   The filepath where output files are written.
  -d, --content-directory TEXT  The name of the S3 bucket containing files for
                                DSpace uploads.  [required]
  -t, --file-type TEXT          The file type for DSpace uploads (i.e., the
                                file extension, excluding the dot).
  --help                        Show this message and exit.
```

### `dsaps newcollection`
```
Usage: -c newcollection [OPTIONS]

  Create a new DSpace collection within a community.

Options:
  -c, --community-handle TEXT  The handle identifying a DSpace community in
                               which a new collection is created.  [required]
  -n, --collection-name TEXT   The name assigned to the DSpace collection
                               being created.  [required]
  --help                       Show this message and exit.
```

### `dsaps additems`

```
Usage: -c additems [OPTIONS]

  Add items to a DSpace collection.

  The method relies on a CSV file with metadata for uploads, a JSON document
  that maps metadata to a DSpace schema, and a directory containing the files
  to be uploaded.

Options:
  -m, --metadata-csv FILE       The filepath to a CSV file containing metadata
                                for Dspace uploads.  [required]
  -f, --field-map FILE          The filepath to a JSON document that maps
                                columns in the metadata CSV file to a DSpace
                                schema.  [required]
  -d, --content-directory TEXT  The name of the S3 bucket containing files for
                                DSpace uploads.  [required]
  -t, --file-type TEXT          The file type for DSpace uploads (i.e., the
                                file extension, excluding the dot).
  -r, --ingest-report           Create ingest report for updating other
                                systems.
  -c, --collection-handle TEXT  The handle identifying a DSpace collection
                                into which uploads are deposited.
  --help                        Show this message and exit.
```

Commit message:

Update 'additems' command
* Deprecate 'field_map' and 'file_type' args
* Remove unused S3 client
* Reference bitstreams from metadata CSV file updated by 'reconcile' command
* Pull out DSpaceCollection.post_items into CLI command

README.md, after:

# DSpace API Python Scripts

DSpace API Python Scripts (DSAPS) is a Python CLI application for managing uploads to DSpace. DSAPS has only been used on instances running DSpace 6.3 and has not been tested on other versions.

Note: Previously, the repository comprised of self-contained scripts that could be run independently. Those scripts can be found as a [release](https://github.com/MITLibraries/dspace-api-python-scripts/releases/tag/v1.0).

## Development

- To preview a list of available Makefile commands: `make help`
- To install with dev dependencies: `make install`
- To update dependencies: `make update`
- To run unit tests: `make test`
- To lint the repo: `make lint`
- To run the app: `pipenv run dsaps --help`

### Reconciling files with metadata CSV

```bash
pipenv run dsaps --config-file $CONFIG_FILE --url $DSPACE_URL -e $DSPACE_EMAIL -p $DSPACE_PASSWORD reconcile -m <metadata-csv> -o /output -d <content-directory>
```

### Creating a new collection within a DSpace community

```bash
pipenv run dsaps --config-file $CONFIG_FILE --url $DSPACE_URL -e $DSPACE_EMAIL -p $DSPACE_PASSWORD newcollection -c <community-handle> -n <collection-name>
```

### Adding items to a DSpace collection

The command below shows `newcollection` and `additems` being run in conjunction with each other. Note that the invocation must call `newcollection` first. In practice, this is the command that is usually run:

```bash
pipenv run dsaps --config-file $CONFIG_FILE --url $DSPACE_URL -e $DSPACE_EMAIL -p $DSPACE_PASSWORD newcollection -c <community-handle> -n <collection-name> additems -m <metadata-csv> -d <s3-bucket-path> 
``` 

## Environment 

### Required

```shell
# The file path to the source configuration JSON with settings for bitstream retrieval and field mappings.
CONFIG_FILE=
```

### Optional

```shell
# The url for the DSpace REST API
DSPACE_URL=

# The email associated with the DSpace user account used for authentication
DSPACE_EMAIL=

# The password associated with the DSpace user account used for authentication
DSPACE_PASSWORD=
```

## CLI commands

All CLI commands can be run with `pipenv run <COMMAND>`.

### `dsaps`

```
Usage: -c [OPTIONS] COMMAND1 [ARGS]... [COMMAND2 [ARGS]...]...

Options:
  --config-file TEXT   File path to source configuration JSON with settings
                       for bitstream retrieval and field mappings.  [required]
  --url TEXT           The url for the DSpace REST API. Defaults to env var
                       DSPACE_URL if not set.
  -e, --email TEXT     The email associated with the DSpace user account used
                       for authentication. Defaults to env var DSPACE_EMAIL if
                       not set.
  -p, --password TEXT  The password associated with the DSpace user account
                       used for authentication. Defaults to env var
                       DSPACE_PASSWORD if not set.
  --help               Show this message and exit.

Commands:
  additems       Add items to a DSpace collection.
  newcollection  Create a new DSpace collection within a community.
  reconcile      Match files in the content directory with entries in the metadata CSV file.
```

### `dsaps reconcile`

```
Usage: -c reconcile [OPTIONS]

  Match files in the content directory with entries in the metadata CSV file.

  Running this method creates the following CSV files:

      * metadata_matches.csv: File identifiers for entries in metadata CSV
      file with a corresponding file in the content directory.

      * no_files.csv: File identifiers for entries in metadata CSV file
      without a     corresponding file in the content directory.

      * no_metadata.csv: File identifiers for files in the content directory
      without a     corresponding entry in the metadata CSV file.

      * updated-<metadata-csv>.csv: Entries from the metadata CSV file with a
      corresponding file in the content directory.

Options:
  -m, --metadata-csv FILE       The filepath to a CSV file containing metadata
                                for Dspace uploads.  [required]
  -o, --output-directory TEXT   The filepath where output files are written.
  -d, --content-directory TEXT  The name of the S3 bucket containing files for
                                DSpace uploads.  [required]
  --help                        Show this message and exit.
```

### `dsaps newcollection`
```
Usage: -c newcollection [OPTIONS]

  Create a new DSpace collection within a community.

Options:
  -c, --community-handle TEXT  The handle identifying a DSpace community in
                               which a new collection is created.  [required]
  -n, --collection-name TEXT   The name assigned to the DSpace collection
                               being created.  [required]
  --help                       Show this message and exit.
```

### `dsaps additems`

```
Usage: -c additems [OPTIONS]

  Add items to a DSpace collection.

  The updated metadata CSV file from running 'reconcile' is used for this
  process. The method will first add an item to the specified DSpace
  collection. The bitstreams (i.e., files) associated with the item are read
  from the metadata CSV file, and uploaded to the newly created item on
  DSpace.

Options:
  -m, --metadata-csv FILE       File path to a CSV file describing the
                                metadata and bitstreams for DSpace uploads.
                                [required]
  -d, --content-directory TEXT  The name of the S3 bucket containing files for
                                DSpace uploads.  [required]
  -r, --ingest-report           Create ingest report for updating other
                                systems.
  -c, --collection-handle TEXT  The handle identifying a DSpace collection
                                into which uploads are deposited.
  --help                        Show this message and exit.
```
